From:	Santiago Nuñez-Corrales <snunezcr@gmail.com>
Sent:	Tuesday, February 01, 2011 9:39 AM
To:	Cindy Zheng
Cc:	jose.r.castro@gmail.com; Dagoberto Arias Aguilar
Subject:	Re: FW: Progress report

Dear Cindy,

This is a synopsis of progress we have had in the past 6 months.

1. NG-TEPHRA

The core software packages has been improved and 98.000 scenarios have been performed with 
close collaboration with the Message Lab. There we have been able to tune the automated 
processing of results and have generated preliminary maps displaying how data would be 
presented to final users. Our current work is focusing on modifications to the original model in 
order to improve accuracy and remove minor issues before running the whole set of 4.41 million 
experiments. Also in the following couple of weeks we will be testing the our next generation 
software, CENIZA (https://github.com/snunezcr/CENIZA) which has been funded by the 
Citizen's Network of Meteorological Stations.

2. Infrastructure Investments at TEC

Thanks to PRAGMA support, three projects containing infrastructure funds were aproved at 
TEC for the e-Science program. A tiled display wall, a cave with 3D displays and a telepresence 
devise are being acquired. Also, thanks to followup with Microsoft a plan for a mid-size cluster 
(approx $200.000). Additionally, the insitutional plan for the Green e-Science and 
Supercomputing Center is being formulated with support from the Provost Office and due in the 
following weeks.

3. Advanced networks

TEC has identified the main roadblocks for implementing the link to our national advanced 
networks initiative. Resources have been dedicated to support the campus wide strategy and 
finally connect resources to PRAGMA. Max deadline: 1 month.


On Thu, Jan 27, 2011 at 10:01 PM, Cindy Zheng <zhengc@sdsc.edu> wrote:
Dear Jose Luis and Santiago, 
 
I know that you have been very active in forging collaborations 
and working on projects with other PRAGMA sites/teams since PRAGMA 19. 
 
I'd like to include them in the progress report, but need to be brief for 
now. 
Could you email me a brief summary on your major efforts and status? 
 
Thanks in advance, 
 
Cindy
