From:	Cindy Zheng <zhengc@sdsc.edu>
Sent:	Tuesday, February 01, 2011 6:57 PM
To:	zhengc@sdsc.edu
Subject:	RE: Moving forward with GLEON/PRAGMA

See the detail description of the project below.
1.	A virtual cluster with Condor had setup in SDSC. A GLEON roll (include Matlab) has been 
developed and tested
2.	Now is ready to test extending the cluster with EC2-based instances

From: Philip Papadopoulos [mailto:philip.papadopoulos@gmail.com]  
Sent: Thursday, January 06, 2011 2:53 PM 
To: Paul Hanson; Miron Livny 
Cc: Grace S. Hong; Peter Arzberger; Cindy Zheng; Nadya Williams 
Subject: Moving forward with GLEON/PRAGMA

Paul, Miron 
I wanted to follow up on our meeting last Month in Wisconsin.  
#1 Is Lake Mendota Frozen over yet? :-) 
 
Here are a number of activities that I think make sense -  
 
1. What I'd like to do is to set up a virtual cluster running Condor on the PRAGMA testbed 
infrastructure in San Diego. 
On that infrastructure I'd like to capture what is needed to run some of your GLEON codes 
(perhaps what is needed 
to do your Kalman Filtering/Systems identification work?) in a Rocks Roll (or two or three, 
depending on what is needed).  
(This looks like  GLEON <---> PRAGMA activity) We use Rocks to make the complete 
environment you need and 
record exactly how this was done via a Roll. 
 
2. When that is working (meaning your folks can easily utilize that cluster via condor FROM 
Wisconsin) we'll look at  
extending that cluster with EC2-based instances (We can trivially author EC2 images via 
Rocks).   This looks like 
a GLEON <--> PRAGMA <---> Rocks activity.  
 
3. When we have that working (actually some simultaneous work), I  want to work with Condor 
folks to get the Image 
authoring Workflow controlled via Condor and the finish the mechanics of using Condor to 
control it's own pool 
expansion into EC2. This looks like a Condor <---> Rocks Activity 
 
4. With various pieces in place, we do the next thing of expanding GLOW with Rocks-authored 
instances. And then, 
recalling what Miron and I talked about, he (Meaning Miron) wants to work on defining 
operational policy for 
WHEN to expand a cluster.  This looks like  Condor <--> GLEON <---> Rocks activity.  
 
 
I believe the goal should be for us plumbers (miron, me) to help simplify what needs to be done 
on the Applications' part 
to run successfully.  
 
 
Thoughts? 
 
P 
 
--  
Philip Papadopoulos, PhD 
University of California, San Diego 
858-822-3628 (Ofc) 
619-331-2990 (Fax)
