From: Cindy Zheng [mailto:zhengc@sdsc.edu] 
Sent: Wednesday, April 05, 2006 5:10 PM
To: 'PRAGMA Grid Admin Team'
Cc: pragma-discussion@pragma-grid.org
Subject: PRAGMA10 and forward

Dear all,
 
Thanks for the effort of our Australia hosts and all PRAGMA friends,
the PRAGMA 10 was a success! Let me tell you what I learned and 
others please add and correct.
 
PRAGMA is growing! Not only that we just gained 3 new members -
CICESE, MIMOS and iHPC (congratulations!), but also there are 
many more new friends at the gathering.  Just mension a few:
JP Navarro, represent our first partner in multigrid interop - TeraGrid
Bill Allcock, represent GLOBUS
Terence Hung, represent iHPC, Singapore
Tuan Anh Nguyen, represent University of Technology, Vietnam
Supakit Prueksaaroon, representing NECTEC, Thailand
 
With old friends and new friends, we had a lot of fun at Townsville! 
Somsak has suggested to share our fun thru sharing photos within 
our PRAGMA community. Mason, Teri, Somsak and I are trying to 
setup and test photo sharing at flickr site. Will let you know when 
it's ready.
 
Again, the fast progress and expansion of testbed was being recognized.
We are all impressed by all the enthusiasm of testbed site supporters,
the diligent work by application drivers and the voluntary help our testbed 
team members lend to each other! I'm so happy to be working with you all!
 
2 key resolutions we have reached at resources group meetings:
 
1. Setup PRAGMA CA by PRAGMA11. We plan to deploy the
integrated GAMA/Naregi-CA for PRAGMA CA. To adhere to IGTF
standard, Naregi-CA and GAMA need to make some modifications.
Both teams have scheduled to finish these modifications and entering
joined testing in June. We target our PRAGMA CA server setup in July.
 
2. Setup Community Software Area (CSA) using gfarm. (We took this
term from TeraGrid. JP gave a good presentation on this at PRAGMA10.)
This means that we'll deploy gfarm to all testbed clusters. Tatebe-san plans 
to finish some fixes by June, to enable Gfarm to work for clusters with
backend nodes on private net only, We will setup a directory structure
in Gfarm file system, so users can install required software there 
themselves. These installations will be available to all testbed clusters
and can be made available to other users as well. This also means that
Gfarm will be a required software for our testbed systems soon.
 
We want to encourage portal and meta-scheduler development and 
testing in our testbed. Also will deploy wiki to enable collaboration on
GOC management. We are also looking forward to include sensor and 
GEON data resources and applications to our routine-basis experiments!
 
3 institutions have pledged to join testbed during PRAGMA10 chat:
NECTEC, Thailand
BU (Binghamton University, New York)
iHPC, Singapore
 
Ken at BU also plans to run an application using sensor data in our testbed.
 
I'm looking forward to our new experiments and to make more friends 
in the process!
 
Cindy

