From:	Wilfred Li <wilfredli01@gmail.com>
Sent:	Tuesday, July 19, 2011 6:55 PM
To:	zhengc@sdsc.edu
Cc:	nadya williams; Jane Ren; Peter W. Arzberger
Subject:	Re: applications run in last 12 months

Hi, Cindy,

The main applications we ran in the past year are APBS, PDB2PQR, AutoDock, and NAMD. 

APBS and PDB2PQR: A suite of programs for making protein electrostatics calculations. APBS 
and PDB2PQR are primarily run on NBCR/PRAGMA resources.

AutoDock: A suite of programs for automated docking to predict the binding affinity of small 
molecules to a receptor of known 3D structure. AutoDock is primarily run on NBCR/PRAGMA 
resources and SDSC/PRAGMA, and Indiana University/PRAGMA resources. 

NAMD: A parallel molecular dynamics code for high performance simulation of large 
biomolecular systems. NAMD is mostly run on NBCR/PRAGMA resources, and TeraGrid 
resources. 

Results:

We have used the NBCR Opal toolkit, and the CSF metascheduler from JLU to build a platform 
for submitting jobs to different PRAGMA resources through a user friendly Opal interface 
accessible both programmatically as SOAP Web services, and through web pages, as well as 
advanced workflow environments such as Vision, Kepler, Vistrails and Taverna. In addition, we 
have developed a hierarchical map-reduce execution framework for cross-cluster scheduling of 
data parallel applications such as AutoDock. 

The publications are as follows:

1. Ren J, Xie L, Li WW and Bourne PE: SMAP-WS: A Parallel Web Service for Structural Proteome-wide 
Ligand Binding Site Comparison. Nucleic Acids Res, 2010, 38:W441-444.  

2. Ren J, Williams N, Clementi L, Krishnan S and Li WW: Opal Web Services for Biomedical Applications. 
Nucleic Acids Res, 2010, 38:W724-731.

3.  Unni, S, Huang, Y, Hanson, R, Tobias M, Krishnan, S, Li, WW, Nielsen, JE, Naker, NA. Web Servers 
and Services for Electrostatics Calculations with APBS and PDB2PQR. J Comp Chem. 32(7): 1488-1491, 
2010.

4. Yuan, L.; Guo, Z.; Sun, Y.; Plale, B.; Qiu, J.; Li, W. W. A Hierarchical Framework for Cross-Domain MapReduce 
Execution, The Second International Emerging Computational Methods for the Life Sciences Workshop; co-located 
with the 20th International ACM Symposium on High-Performance Parallel and Distributed Computing, San Jose, CA, 
June 8-11, 2011. 
 
Best regards, 
 
Wilfred 

2011/7/20 Cindy Zheng <zhengc@sdsc.edu>
Hi, Wilfred, Nadya and Jane,
 
Peter just told me that we need to report PRAGMA progress to NSF and 
asked for applications ran in the last 12 months using PRAGMA resources.
Could you let me know the applications ran by your team?
Please briefly state
-          Application names, descriptions
-          Codes, hardware used
-          Results (technical or application)
-          Publications 
Peter needs these info by Thursday.
So, if you could send me by tomorrow would be great.
 
Nadya – if you know any apps by UZH, let me know too.
 
Thank you very much in advance!
 
Cindy
 

